# Merge and filter motifbreakR + echolocatoR results

For each SNP we have at least one allele achieving a p-value\<1e-4
threshold that we required. The *seqMatch* column shows what the
reference genome sequence is at that location, with the variant position
appearing in an uppercase letter. *pctRef* and *pctAlt* display the the
score for the motif in the sequence as a percentage of the best score
that motif could achieve on an ideal sequence. In other words,
*(scoreVariant-minscorePWM)/(maxscorePWM-minscorePWM)*. We can also see
the absolute scores for our method in *scoreRef* and *scoreAlt* and
their respective p-values.

## Usage

``` r
MOTIFBREAKR_filter(
  mb_res,
  merged_DT,
  filter_by_locus = NULL,
  remove_NA_geneSymbol = TRUE,
  pct_threshold = NULL,
  pvalue_threshold = 1e-04,
  qvalue_threshold = 0.05,
  effect_strengths = NULL,
  snp_filter = "Support>0",
  top_geneSymbol_hits = NULL,
  no_no_loci = NULL,
  verbose = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- mb_res:

  Results generated by
  [MOTIFBREAKR](https://rajlabmssm.github.io/echoannot/reference/MOTIFBREAKR.md),
  in [GRanges](https://rdrr.io/pkg/GenomicRanges/man/GRanges-class.html)
  format.

- merged_DT:

  Table with columns *Locus* and *SNP* to filter `mb_res` by.

- filter_by_locus:

  Filter `mb_res` to only include SNPs present in a given *Locus* (e.g.
  `"BST1"`). Set to `NULL` (default) for not perform any filtering.
  Requires `merged_DT` argument to be supplied.

- remove_NA_geneSymbol:

  Remove results where `geneSymbol==NA`.

- pct_threshold:

  Remove rows below the percentage of the optimal binding score (PCT)
  threshold.

- pvalue_threshold:

  Remove rows below the raw significance value (p-value) threshold.

- qvalue_threshold:

  Remove rows below the multiple testing-corrected significance value
  (q-value) threshold.

- effect_strengths:

  Only include results with certain effect strengths.

- snp_filter:

  Condition to filter SNPs by, after `mb_res` and `merged_DT` have been
  merged together into one table.

- top_geneSymbol_hits:

  Only include N top results per gene symbol based on absolute
  `risk_score`, where N=`top_geneSymbol_hits`. If
  `top_geneSymbol_hits=NULL`, no such filtering is performed.

- no_no_loci:

  Filter out SNPs contained within specific loci in the `merged_DT`
  table.

- verbose:

  Print messages.

## Value

[data.table](https://rdrr.io/pkg/data.table/man/data.table.html) with
the filtered motif disruption results after merging with `merged_DT`.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
merged_DT <- echodata::get_Nalls2019_merged()
mb_res <- MOTIFBREAKR(rsid_list = c("rs11175620"),
                      # limit the number of datasets tests 
                      # for demonstration purposes only
                      pwmList_max = 4,
                      calculate_pvals = FALSE)
mb_res_filt <- MOTIFBREAKR_filter(mb_res = mb_res,
                                  merged_DT = merged_DT)
} # }
```
